# LibriVoxExplorer
LibriVox Explorer from CommonVox.org -- a new way to experience the LibriVox collection of public domain audiobooks on the Windows/Mac/Linux desktop.

From the end-user perspective, LibriVox EXPLORER is a tool to browse and self-curate the LibriVox collection of public domain audiobooks, allowing categorization by Genre, Author, and Reader (i.e., narrator) and ordering by Title, Download-count, and Publication-date. It provides for download of M4B (audiobook) files with optional auto-importation into iTunes, and it also allows the user to create MY LIST -- personalized listings of favorite Authors, Readers, and individual Audiobooks. "Quick Browse" options allow for instant display of the latest offerings in the LibriVox catalog or for a random listing pulled from the catalog. All functions take advantage of (and showcase) the brilliant works of cover-art that are paired with the recordings, making for a visually appealing and always-intriguing exploration of LibriVox's offerings. A three-minute introductory video can be viewed at https://youtu.be/A1NJD8t9RIU .

From a technical perspective, LibriVox EXPLORER is a stand-alone desktop Java application with a JavaFX front-end (making extensive use of Java 8 Lambda expressions). Its backend in-memory datastore is formed by a set of indexes to the collections of Audiobooks and their Authors, Readers, and Genres. This datastore package (org.commonvox.indexedcollection) utilizes generics and reflection to automate the run-time population of all pre-defined composite index structures. LibriVox EXPLORER serves as the first stand-alone sample application utilizing this auto-populating, in-memory, composite-indexing technology (which will be spun off [forked] into an enhanced separate project soon, resources permitting).
